@document.meta
title: 2025-12-09
description: 
authors: dfg
categories: 
created: 2025-12-09T15:24:36+0530
updated: 2025-12-09T20:15:28+0530
version: 1.1.1
@end

* Daily Log: 2025-12-09
I am starting this project up with a vision to understand how a computer actually works.

starting from a CHIP-8 emulator to keep it simple and get me into the mood of low level programming.
I am conflicted between using go and using rust.

I am leaning toward rust as it usually used for this kinda stuff.
pros of using rust is I get to know the language more and use it into an actual project.
I dont think the learning curve will stop me from making this project as I am feeling good about this.
I the cons of using rust is that I have to spend a lot more time into learning the stuff.


As for Go I have gotten pretty good at using it, I mean it is ez.
the cons are that it dont think I will be able to use this anywhere else. this project will remain a small 
learning project.

** Setup
  Now that I have chosen Rust, I need to setup a environment for development,
  I will just make a new cargo project inside this 8B-VM repo
  I have set up and compiled a "Hello, World!" application successfully

   What to do next?
   I think that gathering intel on chip8 is the correct move. From a bit of research I found the pefect reference
   [Cowgod's Chip-8 Technical Reference v1.0]{http://devernay.free.fr/hacks/chip8/C8TECH10.HTM}
   This reference manual states that the chip8 is programming language, I was thinking of it as a chip,
   but it is a language for old do-it-yourself computer.
   And my goal is to create an interpriter for this language which is similar to an emulator maybe.
   I will use this reference as a guide to make my own version of a CHIP-8 interpriter

   The first order of business is to understand and implement specification of CHIP-8, which includes
   - Memory
   - Registers
   - Display
   - Keyboard
   - Timers

   I have started on how the memory should work, I have pretty much made the specification But, 

   Before we any further I would like to make clear how we are goin to setup this and use this memory and all the that
   our emulator needs.
   I am thinking of making a struct with all these things as tag or whatever they are called in rust.

   struct CHIP8 {
   RAM,
   Registers,
   DISPLAY,
   Input,
   Timers,
   }

   Note to myself tags are in Go, In Rust they are called fields.

   After we make a the actual structure part of the struct,
   We need to implement some methods to the do the actual work like creating and new instance, etc.
   In rust it is a bit different from Go, we make a whole block that limits the method to the defined struct.

   impl CHIP8 {
      fn New(args) -> CHIP8 \{...\}
   }

   This method can be used with any instance of CHIP8

   let chip: CHIP8 = CHIP8.New()

   I think this is how it should be done but I will have to check again tomorrow.

* Links
  - {:../adr/adr-001-choice-of-languagerust-vs-go:}[Language ADR(001)]
  - {:../adr/adr-002-project-setup:}[Setup ADR(002)]
  - {:../adr/adr-003-memory:}[Memory ADR(003)]

